<story id="1" tag="uncle" title="Shall I tell you about my uncle, whose life is a test?" >
He is full of warmth.
He tells jokes in a soft voice,
One after another.
He is patient.

As a young man
He sought opportunities all over the world.
His travels led him to a tropical country
Where he felt the sensuous benevolence
Exuded by the land and the people.
He had found his muse.

His career required him to visit a northern city
Where he happened to meet a beautiful woman
From the country of his birth
Who enchanted him.

Before long they were married.
And he prepared to take his young bride
Back to the country he loved.

She hated it.
The people she found ignorant and rude.
The climate was too warm.
The landscape was too vivid.

She insisted on returning to her city in the north.

What could he do? He followed her back.

The next years produced bright, independent children
And saw husband and wife grow distant.
But the pain in his face 
When she says something petty
Is barely concealed.

He tells me a story
About a man long ago
Who was married to an abusive woman.
She finally died, and at the funeral
The man wept uncontrollably.

"Why are you weeping?" his neighbors asked.
"This was an evil woman. You're free now!"

"This woman," he replied, "was my test, 
My purpose in life. Now what is left?"

Is this life a test?
Is that why we suffer?
Or is that how we endure it?</story>

<story id="2" tag="cousin" title="Shall I tell you about my cousin, whose palace is unfinished?" >
He is generous and thoughtful,
Loving and loved.
His life is suffocating him.

He is the oldest of my generation,
And so as a child he was smothered
With the affection of aunts and uncles and grandparents.
He learned to navigate crowds and please adults at an early age.

As a young man, he studied business and traveled,
Coming home to work for a large foriegn company
And start a family.

He fell in love with a woman
Of whom his family disapproved.
They forsaw troubles for the couple
But he silenced their criticism
And married her.

My father has always been close to him.
They speak the same language,
Have worked in the same industries
And they share a playfulness and love of women
That is at once juvenile and infectous.

It was that love of women
That eventually distracted my cousin
From his domestic life.
With two young children
And a dedicated wife,
He began to see another woman.

She was young, an employee of his.
The relationship began casually
But escalated quickly
As she made more demands of him,
Envious of the time he spent with the other.
He bought her gifts to placate her.

Of course,
His family discovered the betrayal
And pressured him to end it.
He defended his position,
Even proposed to the young woman,
But in the end he conceded to his family's demands.

Now he moves about quickly
Changing the topic of conversation
With every other breath.
He has three jobs and two businesses.
He is always excusing himself to talk to someone.
He shows me the site of his future home, 
Under construction.
It is massive, 
Larger than any house I have seen here.
The whole neighborhood is under construction,
Unfinished palaces.

What will it take to make him happy?</story>

<story id="3" tag="stars" title="Shall I tell you about the stars, why they respond so slowly?" >
When we were young,
The stars lived all together.
They danced and sang,
Ecstatic in their intimacy and novelty.

But soon, they became aware of the emptiness around them,
And they were fascinated.
Some got the idea that they could venture into it,
And in doing so become larger,
Perhaps even as large as that emptiness.

One by one they left
Few at first,
But many followed
In the exhiliration of departure
Until they spread across the entire universe.

Now they are far apart.
They flicker and pulse in a sad, slow cadence.
They are sometimes a bit larger or a bit smaller,
But they are alone.

When you speak to them,
You must address them individually.
You must look directly at each one.
And speak clearly but softly.
Be patient;
The distance is greater than you think.</story>

<story id="4" tag="boy" title="Shall I tell you about the boy who dreams the world?" >
Eternity.

Lush gardens with abundant fruits
Ringed by shimmering palaces
With walls of radiant geometric designs traced in crystal,
Cool rivers and gentle brooks all mesmerized him,
But eternity posed a problem.

He thought of all the adventures he might have,
All the eras of history he would like to visit,
All the languages he could learn,
All the cities and coastlines and jungles to wander,
But this added up to only a fraction of Eternity.
He shrank before the immensity of the Paradise
Offered to him.

Over time, he began to reject it.
"Who would desire such a thing?" he wondered.
"How could it not drive a person mad?"

It seemed like a cruel trick.
This uncertainty of the value
Of his reward for a lifetime of submission
Cast doubt on the whole system.
In desperation, he turned to an authority:

"Dad, won't we get bored in Heaven?"

A laugh.
"You just worry about getting there.
Then you can think of something to do."

Condescending, uninformative.
He was left to find his own answers.

How to occupy Eternity?
The question coursed through him over and over.
His imagination systematically exhausted
The possibilities of future experiences.
He couldn't sleep.
There had to be some formula,
Some way to escape finite limitations...

Then one night, an idea struck him
With all of its blazing simplicity.
The finite limitation was himself!
He would pass Eternity in Paradise
By living as each and every thing that could ever live.

Every tree, every flower,
Every animal and insect,
Every person that ever was.
And each time, he would erase his memory,
So that he would always await Paradise.

He breathed a sigh of relief, leaned back,
And closed his eyes.

Just before falling asleep,
He realized with a shock that
All this had already happened
And his life now,
His home, his father, his face,
Was simply a dream he dreamt from Paradise.</story>

<story id="5" tag="land" title="Shall I tell you about the land where people rush to cross?" >
It was a strange land,
With many roads and few destinations.
There were signs everywhere
Instructing people to do this
Prohibiting people from doing that,
But mostly people did as they pleased,
And the only rules that were enforced
Were the ones protecting those people in power,
The people who broke the rules most often.

In the blink of an eye,
The soft, irregular shapes of the land
Became hard and regular
And the people swarmed over them
At incredible speeds.
No one remembered the voice of the land;
They had forgotten it had one at all.

But the land cannot forget.
Everywhere are sad traces of its history.
Confused and astonished at how quickly it is dying,
The land grieves and waits.

What does it wait for?
For someone to listen, to recognize its voice,
To hear its story.
But it also waits for its eventual rebirth.
It will happen, sooner or later.
The question is,
Will we be there to see it?</story>

<story id="6" tag="love" title="Shall I tell you about my love? She is near to me always." >
If I am telling the story
I will describe how I found her,
But if she is telling the story
She will tell you the truth,
That it was she who found me.

We met at a costume party.
After dancing and consuming strange blue drinks
From a girl in a silver sequined nurse's uniform,
I wandered to the back of the party
And sat down against a wall.
I was a bit exhausted, but the party was in full swing,
So I decided to stay a little longer.

Just then a beautiful girl seated a few feet away
Turned and asked me if I could share some warmth.
"Of course," I answered, and she came closer,
Wrapping herself in my arms.

She was adorable, dressed - quite authentically - as a pirate.
I'm not sure how I appeared to be warm
As I was painted all in black,
But she showed no hesitation
As she made herself comfortable.

We talked for hours,
About our families, places we'd travelled, good food...
Before we parted, she granted me one kiss.

I left town the next day to attend an art festival.
We corresponded while I was away
And I found myself thinking about her all the time.
I had suffered for love my entire life,
At times imposing it on others,
At times brandishing it like a sword.
I was so certain of the intensity of my love
That I was sometimes frightened,
But this girl had effortlessly captured it
With a single embrace.

We arranged to meet when I returned.
Neither of us realized that we were in disguise
When we first met,
So I sat at the bar and tried to identify
The mysterious pirate girl.
Soon enough, she walked up to me.
We laughed.
She had found me twice.

I feel her presence always.
She has tempered my intensity,
Taught me simple compassion,
And lessened my dependence on words.
How can I express my love?
I must show her, everyday,
With infinite permutations of truth and beauty.</story>

<story id="7" tag="water" title="Shall I tell you of my water, which is getting thirsty?" >
My water likes to dance.

Sometimes she moves slowly and gently,
Sometimes she moves forcefully,
Crashing and surging.
Do not be afraid;
She simply enjoys testing her strength,
Like a wild horse running.

Above all my water is mild and playful,
And will always embrace you.

But now my water is thirsty.
Her color has changed.
In many places she has stopped moving.
Some, envious of her untamed strength,
Seek to control her.
They do not realize her bounty is volitional.
Constrained and adulterated, she shivers and weeps.</story>

<story id="8" tag="world" title="Perhaps I should tell you that the whole world is determined to become my family." >
Perhaps I should tell you that the whole world 
Is determined to become my family.

It's true,
They are knocking on the door now.

Some are scared and seeking shelter.
Some are confused and don't know how they arrived.
Others are overjoyed
And have already
Started cooking a feast.

I tell them there is no hurry.
I ask them to keep it down;
You are still sleeping in a small room upstairs.
</story>

<story id="9" tag="sister" title="Shall I tell you about my sister? Let me tell you about my sister..." >
She is beautiful, vibrant, precious...
A doctor, athlete, world traveler and intellectual.
She is hurting right now.
You see, she is passionately in love.

They met while she was visiting me.
I had taken her to hear a samba band
Her favorite music.

As she was dancing,
I went to the bar for a drink.

A man approached me and timidly asked
About the woman I was with
I said it was my sister, and he sighed with relief.
Then he asked my permission to speak with her.

Confident that she could handle herself,
I gave my permission.
He appeared sincere, perhaps even shy.

It was, apparently, love at first sight.

Over the next several months, 
Their relationship grew
As they slowly began to trust each other.

Many times my sister called me for advice.
I tried to console her fears and insecurities.
Then I began to run into her on the street,
Obviously visiting him.
Then she moved to the same city.

I watched the two of them grow in many respects,
Even as they descended into a cycle of pain and drama.

Their problems began as practical matters.
He had two young children
And a limited education.

She was fiercly independent, a professional
And did not much like children.

To add to this, my parents were alarmed 
To discover that their daughter
Was involved with a man below their social class.

As I tried to support and comfort my sister, 
Seeing in her predicament 
A challenge suited to her character,
I received increasingly desperate calls from my parents
Who implored me to intervene on their behalf.

What could I do? They were in love.
You could tell from across the room.
How could anyone stand in the way of such a force?

Just as I saw the relationship 
As a challenge for my sister,
I saw my parents' shock
As the challenge particularly suited to them.

How life presents us 
With appropriate dilemmas...

Though my sister came to develop 
A wonderful relationship with the children,
The mounting pressure began to disturb the lovers
And they reacted with fear and hostility.

The drama became a ritual,
A habit with its own momentum.

Eventually, she became exhausted,
Physically and emotionally,
And she sought ways of healing.
She began to study
And become conscious of the dimensions of suffering,
Which reflect the dimensions of happiness.

What now will become of her?</story>